a senior political analyst M bashara
joins us on the set I think tck really
just summed up in such an emotional way
that no place no area is safe there is
no such thing as a a safe Zone and today
two families that we know as part of the
aljazera family are mourning their
dead nowhere sa and Gaza and no
journalist is safe in Gaza I think that
should tell us something I mean it's
understood that they are War
journalists but still the fact that more
than 100 journalists were killed within
3 months Israel breaking yet another
record in terms of killing of children
and destruction of hospitals of
destruction of schools and the killing
of United Nations
staff and now with more than 109
journalists killed this definitely
requires a certain stand on the part of
our our colleagues around the world not
just you know higher up institutions I'm
talking about journalists around the
world those who came and covered the
World
Cup in Doha for violations of Labor
rights or
whatever those who are shedding tears in
Ukraine those who are trying to cover
chyang in China those who claim there
are genocides happening right left and
center from China to Ukraine to
elsewhere those same journalists who see
in plain sight what is happening in Gaza
should regardless if we
disagree on Israel's motives or Israel's
objectives in this war regardless we
might disagree but we must agree that
the protection of journalists and their
families is
indispensable for our profession for
their profession journalist needs to
journalist associations and syndicates
around the world especially in those
countries where with influence over
Israel like as in Europe as in the
United States and elsewhere journalist
needs to take a stand about what's going
on in Gaza this cannot continue to go on
unanswered I mean what about them
they're going to be from various media
Outlets deploying journalists in war in
in in in Wartime and war war uh uh
stricken areas we will all have to call
for the defense of journalists and their
lives and their and their protection and
their well-being this cannot just go on
like this unabated in Gaza and we say it
just can't go on for any particular
group or one group Maran and yet the
only way it's going to stop is that
pressure as many people and government
see on Israel by America to stop this
but that isn't happening despite the
fact that the secretary of state is in
the region and that as you said before
his visit here is perhaps just a
complete waste of time until he can put
pressure on Israel to stop it's a
complete waste of time but in order to
buy Israel more time to finish his
genocide which is the worst of all
worlds not only wasting everyone's time
in the region but really to buy Israel
more time to finish genocide but how do
you get to governments look at the end
of the day governments work according to
interests right and according to
election agenda as in the United States
or as in Great Britain or what have you
but in the end of the day since we are
talking about the media the media has a
role to play I Remember during the
opening of the World Cup back to the
World Cup and during the opening of the
World Cup certain channels influential
channels decided not to cover the
opening of the World Cup contrary to the
wishes of all their viewers but decided
to conduct debates over human rights
labor violations in
qar what happened during Christmas when
the Holy Land was getting decimated or
parts of it when Palestinians were dying
in
Bethlehem and in Gaza and in ramala and
in Janine and in
KH what were they doing celebrating
Christmas why weren they cutting their
celebration of Christmas in order to
show the massacre that's happening in
the holy land so media has a role to
play it's starting timidly timidly to
clear all now we see more and more
coverage in Western television channels
in Western uh uh press in other places
around the world we are seeing more and
more but that's not enough because we
are in a race with time people are dying
journalists are dying children are dying
hospitals continue to be
destroyed schools are now just shelters
for destroyed families so in the end of
the day media has to take a role if the
networks in important Western capitals
and other capitals start to take a stand
as they did on other important questions
around the world I think we might get
somewhere in terms of ending the war in
Gaza we'll see what does happen because
we have been getting some reaction from
uh media institutions as such Marin and
we'll unpick it more as the day
progresses Marin bashara our senior
political analyst thank you